# Table of contents

- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Changelogs](#changelogs)
- [Data profiles](#data-profiles)
    - [bam](#bam)
    - [feature](#feature)

TOC generated by https://luciopaiva.com/markdown-toc/

# Introduction

# Changelogs

# Data profiles
See `data_profiles.py` for the `json`/`dictionary` template.

## bam
- `Labcode`: Represents a unique labcode assigned to each sample. The labcode must match the sample information from wet-lab sites.
- `SequencingID`: Each sample can be sequenced multiple times, generating several data with the same `Labcode`. `SequencingID` helps us identify the correct sample and its corresponding sequencing data.
- `FileName`: Represents the object name that is uniquely identified in minio.
- `FileType`: Can be either `feature` or `intermediate file`. `Feature` indicates that the data is ready-to-use as features for further downstream analysis or machine learning/deep learning model construction and evaluation. `Intermediate file` indicates that the file is an important intermediate file of a pipeline (e.g., `.BAM` file). Such files should be kept to avoid re-running the pipeline, which usually takes a significant amount of time.
- `FileExt`: File extension.
- `Date`: Last modified date/time.
- `Pipeline`: Name of the pipeline used to generate the data.
- `Pipeline_params`: Important pipeline parameters, for reproducibility.
- `Pipeline_repo`: Link to gitlab pipeline repository. 
- `Project`: Project name
- `Sub_project`: Sub-project name
- `Ref_genome`: Reference genome
- `Note`: Additional notes on the pipeline/data.
- `label1-4`: Slots for labeling the data (e.g cancer, control, TOO class, ...)
- `bucket`: Minio bucket name.
- `member`: the person in charge of the data.

## feature
The `feature` data profile shares the following fields with the **bam** profile: `Labcode`, `SequencingID`, `FileName`, `FileExt`, `Date`, `Pipeline`, `Pipeline_params`, `Pipeline_repo`, `Project`, `Sub_project`, `Ref_genome`, `Note`, `label1-4`, `bucket`, `member`. 

The following new fields need to be defined:
- `Description`: a short description of the feature. 
- `FeatureName`: name of the feature.
- `FeatureVersion`: version of the feature (e.g GW_TM_feature_v0.1, GW_TM_feature_v0.2, ...)
- `Feature_Pipeline`, `Feature_Pipeline_params`, `Feature_Pipeline_repo`: information on the pipeline that generate the feature data. 
- (**!IMPORTANT**) `Input`, `Input_type`: these two fields indicate where and which we should take the input file to generate this feature

## cov
The `cov` data profile shares the following fields with the **bam** profile:
`Labcode`, `SequencingID`, `FileName`, `Date`, `Pipeline`, `Pipeline_params`, `Pipeline_repo`, `Project`, `Sub_project`, `Note`, `label1-4`, `bucket`.

This profile has these additional fields `methylationCaller`, `methylationCallerParams` (e.g Bismark methylation extractor, ...)

## fastq

